file2


This is my file 1, I want to make changes here

ha ha ha

good luck


World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australia
China
Europe
India
Middle East
United Kingdom
Audio
Live TV

Log In
Protests are sweeping France. Here’s what you need to know
Tara John Barry Neild
By Sana Noor Haq, Joshua Berlinger, Tara John, Barry Neild and Xiaofei Xu, CNN
Updated 6:58 PM EDT, Fri June 30, 2023



Follow:

Crime and justice

Gun violence
Explore all
orsign up to save topics

French police arrest hundreds during protests
03:29 - Source: CNN
CNN
 — 
France has been rocked by a wave of protests after a 17-year-old youth was shot by police near Paris Tuesday, sparking a ban on demonstrations in some cities, travel warnings and reigniting a debate on overpolicing in marginalized communities.

Scenes emerged of people setting fires to vehicles and climbing onto buildings with smashed windows, while riot police officers fiercely clashed with demonstrators.

Follow topics of interest to you:

Crime and justice

Gun violence
Explore all or sign up to save topics
The unrest prompted a crisis response from French President Emmanuel Macron, who held an emergency meeting with ministers as he attempts to bridge divisions and unite the country in his second term.

Here’s what we know.

What sparked the protests?
A police officer shot dead the teenager, Nahel, who was of Algerian heritage, during a traffic stop in the Paris suburb of Nanterre earlier this week.

Footage of the incident captured by a passerby showed two officers standing on the driver’s side of the car, one of whom discharged his gun at the driver despite not appearing to face any immediate threat.

The officer said he fired his gun because he was scared the boy would run someone over with the car, Nanterre prosecutor Pascal Prache said.

Prache said that it is believed the officer acted illegally in using his weapon. He is currently facing a formal investigation for voluntary homicide and has been placed in preliminary detention.

Mounia, Nahel's mother, gestures as she stands on a truck during a march in Nanterre on June 29.
Firefighters extinguish burning vehicles during clashes in Nanterre on Wednesday, June 28.
Protesters clash with police in Nanterre, France, on Friday, June 30.
Protesters clash with police in Nanterre, France, on Friday, June 30.
Gonzalo Fuentes/Reuters
A firefighter extinguishes a car that was burnt during clashes between protesters and police in Roubaix, France, on June 30.
People walk past a vandalized shop in Lille, France, on June 30.
Burnt buses can be seen through the gates at the Fort d'Aubervilliers bus terminal in Aubervilliers, France, on June 30.
Protesters clash with police in Nanterre on June 30.
Fireworks explode as policemen stand by during protests in Roubaix on June 30.
People look at burning tires blocking a street in Bordeaux, France, on Thursday, June 29.
Demonstrators clash with police in Paris on June 29.
Cars burn in Nanterre on June 29.
Police face protesters at the end of a march in Paris on June 29.
People demonstrate in Nanterre on June 29.
Firefighters try to extinguish burning cars in Paris on June 29. 
Mounia, Nahel's mother, gestures as she stands on a truck during a march in Nanterre on June 29.
Firefighters extinguish burning vehicles during clashes in Nanterre on Wednesday, June 28.
Protesters clash with police in Nanterre, France, on Friday, June 30.
A firefighter extinguishes a car that was burnt during clashes between protesters and police in Roubaix, France, on June 30.
In pictures: Protests erupt across France after police shooting
1 of 14
PrevNext
What’s happened since?
Protesters have been carrying signs that read,”the police kill” and hundreds of government buildings have been damaged as Nahel’s death taps into anger over racial bias in the country.

Successive nights of violence across France and its overseas territories have in turn prompted French officials launch a crackdown. More than 40,000 police officers have been mobilized to patrol cities across the country, nearly 1,000 people have been arrested and more than 200 police officers have been injured.

In Paris alone, 5,000 security personnel were deployed. Officers were given powers to quell riots, make arrests, and “restore republican order,” French Interior Minister Gerard Darmanin said.

Overseas French territories have also witnessed violent protests. A man was killed by a “stray bullet” in Cayenne, capital of French Guiana, by a “stray bullet” during riots on Thursday.

What does this mean for Macron?
Macron gave himself 100 days to heal the country and reset his presidency after weeks of protests against unpopular pension reforms earlier this year. But hopes for a reset are now likely to be hampered by the widespread protests. It has not gone unnoticed that French President Emmanuel Macron attended an Elton John concert on Wednesday as cars burned and buildings were defaced across the country.

The French government is working to avoid a repeat of 2005, when the deaths of two teenage boys hiding from police set off a state of emergency amid three weeks of rioting.

Macron did cut short his attendance at a European Council summit in Brussels that had been due to last through Friday. He announced a ban on all “large-scale events” in France, including “celebratory events and numerous gatherings,” and implored parents to keep their children at home, saying a third of the almost 900 people detained overnight were young.

French President Emmanuel Macron (center) held a crisis meeting, in Paris, on Friday, after the police shooting of a teenage boy triggered protests.
French President Emmanuel Macron (center) held a crisis meeting, in Paris, on Friday, after the police shooting of a teenage boy triggered protests.
Yves Herman/AFP/Getty Images
Macron has also called for social media platforms to help quell the demonstrations, asking TikTok and Snapchat to withdraw the “most sensitive content” and to identify users who employ “social networks to call for disorder or to exacerbate violence.”

What led to the unrest?
Activists believe Nahel’s race was a factor in his killing, unraveling deep-rooted tensions over police discrimination against minoritized communities in France.

Secularism – known as “laïcité” in French – is a key foundation of French culture, as it seeks to uphold equality for all by erasing markers of difference, including race.

But many people of color in France say they are more likely to be victims of police brutality than White people. A 2017 study by the Rights Defenders, an independent human rights watchdog in France, found that young men perceived to be Black or Arab were 20 times more likely to be stopped by police than their peers.

Accusations of brutality have long plagued French police. The Council of Europe criticized “excessive use of force by state agents” in a statement earlier this year during protests against Macron’s unpopular pension reforms.

Rights groups, like Amnesty International, have accused French police of ethnic profiling and have recommended deep, systemic reform to address the discrimination.

Anti-discrimination campaigners say Nahel's race was a factor in his death.
Anti-discrimination campaigners say Nahel's race was a factor in his death.
Family Handout via Twitter
The UN called on France to address “deep issues of racism and discrimination in law enforcement,” in the agency’s first comments since the killing.

In a statement on Friday, a spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights urged French authorities to “ensure use of force by police to address violent elements in demonstrations always respects the principles of legality, necessity, proportionality, non-discrimination, precaution and accountability.”

The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs later rebuffed the UN’s comments, saying: “France, and its police forces, fight with determination against racism and all forms of discrimination. There can be no doubt about this commitment.

“The use of force by the national police and gendarmerie is governed by the principles of absolute necessity and proportionality, strictly framed and controlled,” the ministry added.

Is it safe to travel to France?
As peak travel season gets underway, multiple countries issued stark warnings to those visiting France, where domestic transport networks have been disrupted.

The Interior Ministry announced that public transportation, including buses and tramways, would shut down across the country by 9 p.m. local time (3 p.m. ET), ahead of a fourth night of expected protests.

Limited curfews were imposed in Clamart and Neuilly-sur-Marne, while some bus services were disrupted in Paris but the Metro system was operating as normal. The Nanterre-Préfecture train station was closed.

In Lille, bus and tramway services were more or less running normally on Friday, with some diversions in place.

In the southern city of Marseille, public transport was due to stop services at 7 p.m.

There was no disruption to the Eurostar service connecting London, Lille and Paris as a result of the protests. French intercity trains are also not affected.

Further afield, the US State Department issued a security alert on June 29 covering France. It suggested monitoring media outlets France24, RFI and The Local for updates.

Meanwhile, Britain issued a travel advisory urging tourists to “monitor the media” and “avoid areas where riots are taking place.”

German authorities also advised its citizens to “find out about the current situation where you are staying at and avoid large-scale places of violent riots.”

CNN’s Dalal Mawad, Niamh Kennedy and Lindsay Isaac contributed reporting.

RELATED

Sponsored content
[Story] Father Was Arrested After Police Saw This Family Picture - Can You See Why?
[Story] Father Was Arrested After Police Saw This Family Picture - Can You See Why?
FamilyFeed
Illinois Will Cover the Cost to Install Solar if You Live in These Zips
Illinois Will Cover the Cost to Install Solar if You Live in These Zips
Learn More
EasySolar
[Photos] After Giving Birth To Twins, Mom Felt Sick - Doctor Sees Ultrasound And Says: "I'm Sorry"
[Photos] After Giving Birth To Twins, Mom Felt Sick - Doctor Sees Ultrasound And Says: "I'm Sorry"
MisterStory
Teen shot after ringing wrong doorbell reveals the 5 words the shooter told himTeen shot after ringing wrong doorbell reveals the 5 words the shooter told him
U.S.
Teen shot after ringing wrong doorbell reveals the 5 words the shooter told him
Jon Hamm says it’s ‘exciting’ to be married to ‘Mad Men’ co-star Anna OsceolaJon Hamm says it’s ‘exciting’ to be married to ‘Mad Men’ co-star Anna Osceola
Entertainment
Jon Hamm says it’s ‘exciting’ to be married to ‘Mad Men’ co-star Anna Osceola
U.S. tourists attacked in Germany are recent college graduatesU.S. tourists attacked in Germany are recent college graduates
World
U.S. tourists attacked in Germany are recent college graduates
[Photos] At 93, Robert Wagner Finally Openly Spoke about Wife Natalie Wood's Death
[Photos] At 93, Robert Wagner Finally Openly Spoke about Wife Natalie Wood's Death
Sponsored: Culturess
[Photos] Golf Fans React To Dustin Johnson Family Photos
[Photos] Golf Fans React To Dustin Johnson Family Photos
Sponsored: TheSportsDrop
If You Need To Kill Time On Your Computer, This Vintage Game Is A Must-Have. No Install
If You Need To Kill Time On Your Computer, This Vintage Game Is A Must-Have. No Install
Sponsored: Forge Of Empires
Hands Down One of the Best Cards for Good Credit
Hands Down One of the Best Cards for Good Credit
Sponsored: The Motley Fool
MORE FROM CNN
Look of the Week: Hunter Schafer’s ethereal Oscars after-party look
Look of the Week: Hunter Schafer’s ethereal Oscars after-party look
A 13-year-old died in Ohio after participating in a Benadryl TikTok ‘challenge’
A 13-year-old died in Ohio after participating in a Benadryl TikTok ‘challenge’
Recommended for you


[Photos] 25 Of The Most Inappropriate Dresses on The Red CarpetSponsored
[Photos] 25 Of The Most Inappropriate Dresses on The Red Carpet
YourBump
Met Gala Dresses That Made Guests Truly UncomfortableSponsored
Met Gala Dresses That Made Guests Truly Uncomfortable
YourDIY
NEWS & BUZZ
Arnold Schwarzenegger says friend Bruce Willis will be remembered as a ‘great star’ and a ‘kind man’
Arnold Schwarzenegger says friend Bruce Willis will be remembered as a ‘great star’ and a ‘kind man’
Putin burns through another top Ukraine commander as armed forces chief is handed ‘poisoned chalice’
Putin burns through another top Ukraine commander as armed forces chief is handed ‘poisoned chalice’
Search CNN...

Search
US
Crime + Justice
Energy + Environment
Extreme Weather
Space + Science
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australia
China
Europe
India
Middle East
United Kingdom
Politics
The Biden Presidency
Facts First
US Elections
Business
Tech
Media
Calculators
Videos
Markets
Pre-markets
After-Hours
Market Movers
Fear & Greed
World Markets
Investing
Markets Now
Before the Bell
Nightcap
Opinion
Political Op-Eds
Social Commentary
Health
Life, But Better
Fitness
Food
Sleep
Mindfulness
Relationships
Entertainment
Movies
Television
Celebrity
Tech
Innovate
Gadget
Foreseeable Future
Mission: Ahead
Upstarts
Innovative Cities
Style
Arts
Design
Fashion
Architecture
Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations
Food & Drink
Stay
News
Videos
Sports
Pro Football
College Football
Basketball
Baseball
Soccer
Olympics
Hockey
CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC
Live TV
ows A-Z
CNNVR
Audio
CNN Underscored
Electronics
Fashion
Beauty
Health & Fitness
Home
Reviews
Deals
Money
Gifts
Travel
Outdoors
Pets
CNN Store
Coupons
Weather
Climate
Storm Tracker
Wildfire Tracker
Video
More
Photos
Longform
Investigations
CNN Profiles
CNN Leadership
CNN Newsletters
Work for CNN
World
Audio
Live TV
FOLLOW CNN
Log In
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Settings
Ad Choices
Accessibility & CC
About
Newsletters
Transcripts
© 2023 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
